README.md, before:

# LinearStitch #

LinearStitch is a very simple image stitcher designed for images show in a single horizontal line, from left to right, using something like a [Gigamacro](http://www.gigamacro.com).  

LinearStitch uses SIFT to identify matches between the likely-overlap regions of two images.  It then directly concatenates those images together (without blending).  The goal is to ensure that the original images are undistorted, even if that means the stitch seam itself is imperfect.

To run LinearStitch, you'll need to have Python3 and OpenCV 3, along with a few python dependencies.  For instructions for installtion Python3 and OpenCV3 on the Mac, visit [http://seeb0h.github.io/howto/howto-install-homebrew-python-opencv-osx-el-capitan/](http://seeb0h.github.io/howto/howto-install-homebrew-python-opencv-osx-el-capitan/).  

To install on Windows, we recommend using [Anaconda](http://anaconda.org).  [These instructions](https://rivercitylabs.org/up-and-running-with-opencv3-and-python-3-anaconda-edition/) will walk you through the process.  Uee conda install -c menpo opencv to get the proper verison of opencv (3.4).

In additon to OpenCV, you'll need tkinter and numpy installed.  Both of these can be installed via pip.

For more information on this software, please visit [labs.latis.umn.edu](http://labs.latis.umn.edu).

Commit message:

chore: updated installation instructions in readme and froze new pip requirements file
The install should only require pip now, as appose to needing anaconda for opencv 3.4. It's working on Windows as of this commit, though it should work on other platforms with the same install instructions.

README.md, after:

# LinearStitch #

LinearStitch is a very simple image stitcher designed for images show in a single horizontal line, from left to right, using something like a [Gigamacro](http://www.gigamacro.com).  

LinearStitch uses SIFT to identify matches between the likely-overlap regions of two images.  It then directly concatenates those images together (without blending).  The goal is to ensure that the original images are undistorted, even if that means the stitch seam itself is imperfect.

### Installation

To run LinearStitch, you'll need to have Python3 installed. It is recommended to use pip for the rest of the installation.

To install all python dependencies using pip, run

```shell
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

You may then run the LinearStitch application using

```shell
python LS_GUI.py
```

tkinter is also required, but comes with most distributions of python. If it is missing you may install it using pip.

You will also need to install Zerene Stacker, which you can download from [here](https://zerenesystems.com/cms/stacker/softwaredownloads).

For more information on this software, please visit [labs.latis.umn.edu](http://labs.latis.umn.edu).
